---
layout: post
title: "Raconteur Updates: Version 0.4.0"
author: Bruno Dias
author_id: "@NotBrunoAgain"
author_url: "http://twitter.com/notbrunoagain"
---

This is the changelog for for Raconteur, from the launch release up to 0.4.0.

### 0.4.0

- qualities.js now exports `create()` and `use()`, two functions used to
  incorporate your own quality constructors into the API.

### 0.3.0 (April 30, 2015)

- Did away with exportUndum(), since the problem it solves doesn't really exist.
- Moved undum to a devdependency.

### 0.2.1 (April 18, 2015)

- Add racontest.js, a module for inserting debugging/testing utilities.

### Explanation of the changes

`exportUndum()` was an ugly, late-night hack to fix a mostly imaginary problem caused by the way Raconteur had its dependencies list set up. Since that problem was fixed, that function has been removed; instead, use the usual require() syntax to import undum-commonjs into your projects.

This was caused by Raconteur and your project having independent copies of Undum, which should no longer be the case as Undum is no longer a regular dependency of Raconteur; instead, undum-commonjs should be a dependency of your project, which it invariably will be anyway. The Raconteur scaffold reflects this change.

`racontest.js` is (currently) a tiny module that will create an interface widget that allows you to jump between situations. To use it, import it and call `racontest.init(system)` inside your `undum.game.init` function; then test your game in a server by adding the `#debug` hash to the end of the URL. This module is still experimental, but it provides some minimal testing functionality to go with Raconteur. Eventually, however, the goal is to have more robust testing facilities like the Monte Carlo test harness that ChoiceScript enjoys; but for that to be done efficiently, Undum will have to be modified so it can run well headlessly.

`create()` and `use()` are the first step towards letting you attach your own prototypes to Raconteur, and important ones, since they allow for custom quality definitions.

### The past, present, and future of Raconteur

I've written a post regarding the current state of Raconteur on [my blog](http://segue.pw/), which also contains some tutorials to help people get up to speed. As ever, if you need help, don't hesitate to submit an issue on [Github](https://github.com/sequitur/raconteur) or contact me on [Twitter](https:/twitter.com/notbrunoagain). Happy hacking!